L--- did a PhD in drones. Did two trainings: PFCO, now called GVC. Not
really a license ... by having a GVC we could do things slightly more
than what you can do without one.

Visual Line of Sight vs. BVLOS.

GVC is only VLoS.

Then there are sizes of drones, which have changed. This is part of
the problem -- things keep changing. eg, CAA is trying to stick with
EASA (and the EEC) but yet do its own stuff. It has two hats: it is
the regulator, but also instructed to enable innovation.

These days, you can pretty much fly a < 250g drone within limits. More
than 250g it gets more complicated. 

Certificates are now Level 1, 2, 3, and 4. 

Of course, most of the interesting stuff is BVLoS. That's where the
innovation is. There is a lot of paperwork involved for that! Now
there is SORA (which used to be called an "Operational Safety
Case"). At Bristol, we used to have an Operational Safety Case which
allowed certain things at our flying field. (Still LoS.)

The CAA ends up creating temporary, use-case dependent ... eg,
Apian. "If you do all this paperwork, we'll let you do these trials"
in “sandboxes”. 


### Definitions

Autonomous vs. automated. Automated is not "making decisions", it's
following a pre-planned route. 

"Safe" means that the drone has a similar level of safety as a piloted
aircraft. Eg, 10^6/10^9 flight hours per incident. 



### Other ideas:

"Skydio" - a US drone company.
"Zipline" - another drone company.

Swarms -- one pilot, multiple drones is the problem. 

FPV flying -- have to have a spotter.

BVLoS -- autonomous *or* piloted, doesn't matter. Even if you're
watching it on a screen. 

"It's not always clear how you meet the requirements [of the law]."

UTM -- Uncrewed Traffic Management

